In his F-22, John Occam pierces the sky. The earth below loses its randomness and is reshaped into vast geometric patterns. Cities become gray grids. Farmland turns to quilted patches of green and brown. As he climbs higher, mountains flatten, and rivers run like wild veins, stitching together the fractured landscapes.
Beyond the clouds, the light scatters less. He ascends into an oceanic blue that darkens into a rich, oily black, a color not meant for human eyes. He’s seen the Earth’s curve dozens of times, yet in the moment, it always feels surreal.
At this height, God’s vantage point, everything is still. Air traffic lies miles below, and he is above any possible storm. Only the faint hum of his low-probability-of-intercept radio ties him to the world beneath. With nothing but intense sunlight above, he feels an uncanny solitude, a peaceful high. At this speed, with no landmarks in sight, he might as well be lost at sea, adrift and unburdened by earthly tasks and desires. 
Then, the quietness is interrupted. Something else is in his airspace, moving toward him at an impossible quickness. His radar stutters, vanishes, then locks on again. The object is teleporting. The radio turns to a soft, harmonic static; a lullaby in white noise.
“Solomon, we’ve got a ghost. Black Delta.” No response. The static grows louder, drowning out his reports. The contact cloaks sporadically. Its position is unstable as it nears.
Suddenly, the sky shifts to turquoise. A black pyramid hovers silently in front of his Raptor, revealing itself. It has no wings or propulsion, yet mirrors his speed and mimics his every move, as if reading the chaos of his thoughts. It gracefully dances around him, taunting him. It defies physics as it tears through the air, vanishing and then reappearing at will.
Outmatched and unable to escape, he stops resisting. He follows. Suddenly, three more appear. They surround him like an electron cloud. His systems fail. Shadows wrap around him as he falls.
“Solomon!” John screams into the void, and his fall slows. He’s no longer plummeting, he’s suspended, trapped within their orbiting shell, snared in their web. 
Then it begins, first in his fingertips, then in his chest. His cells begin to divide and evaporate. His body and soul dissolves into thin air. It scatters and reassembles somewhere else; Bluetoothed to a foreign land. He blacks out. 
“Where am I?”
His vision returns in waves. A white screen flickers in a sterile white room. His flight boots, helmet, and oxygen mask are missing, and his velcro identifiers and dog tags have been removed. 
Once more, he hears the static lullaby. 
“Congratulations and welcome to the Tower,” the screen says, in a deep rasp he recognizes.
“We’ve been waiting for you.” 
“Proceed to 1023.” 


Through the mist, the sun rakes its final rays across the black tower. The monolith, matte and unnaturally dark, swallows the light around it. Yet from within, a faint glow seeps through its seams. Thousands of muted halos and colorless rainbows form as the suspended water scatters the light in every direction. 
Soft light sinuates the tower’s unnatural beauty. Forged from a single, solid slab, it stands over a hundred stories tall. It is an immaculate rectangular prism carved with precise lines that divide it into evenly spaced levels. Its clean angles contradict the wilderness that surrounds it. From a distance, it is cold and simplistic, like an ultramodern totem pole. But up close, it is a robotic hive, silently humming with purpose beneath its sterile surface.
Within the seams, dense crowds of transistors and conductive lines mimic cityscapes. They look like skyscrapers rising in grids, bordered by bustling electric streets. Highways of conductive paths link these cities to each other and to open plains and elevated ridges: the regulators and buffers of this landscape. The regions are defined by golden rivers, wires that channel energy and information. Together, they are a thriving civilization. 
Beyond what the eye perceives, the tower is alive on a deeper level. It is self-aware and spiritual. It communicates ideas and emotions. It creates. It destroys. Many believe it even has a soul. 

"1023," the voice repeats.
A line of floor tiles glows beneath his bare feet, guiding him out the door and across the hall. His steps are unsteady at first, but soon he finds his rhythm. He braces himself for another sterile white room. Instead, his foot sinks into warm sand. He stumbles forward. Looking over his shoulder, he watches the door disappear into the dunes. Sunlight dances along his nape. He watches fishermen cast a net off the back river pier. He listens to small children screaming as they chase the waves. He’s at the beach, his beach, in his hometown.   
“Feel at home yet?”
John jumps, surprised to see anyone he knows here. Awkwardly, he snaps to attention and salutes without thinking. Tears leak from his eyes. 
“Sergeant Solomon!”
“At ease.” Solomon lowers John’s arm. He hides behind a pair of aviators. His beard is unusually unkempt, and his face is dirty, as though he’s been lost at sea for some time. 
“What is this place?” John asks, his watering eyes scan the familiar shoreline in disbelief. 
“It’s yours,” Solomon says, admiring the view. “Anywhere you want to go.” 
“This could be your office.” 
“No…What is this place?” John says with some grit. 
“It is your hometown, just how you left it.” 
A pelican nosedives into the ocean, snatching a fish from the waves.
“Am I…?” John gets lightheaded and his vision tunnels. 
“Alive?” Solomon finishes for him. “Yes.”
He continues, calm and certain, “You’ve been chosen. Watched. Evaluated. You’re being inducted into an elite surgical unit under Air Combat Command.”
“Surgical Unit?” he mocks and dries his eyes. 
“You’re wrong.” 
 “I don’t have any medical experience.”
“None needed. You have something more important.” 
“What’s that?” John shrugs. 
“In time, you’ll see.” Solomon smiles. 
“I didn’t consent to being ----, John searches for the word, “transmitted.” 
“Actually, you did when you enlisted and when you reenlisted. But that’s not important.” 
John draws a shaky breath, grounding himself in the salty air. He looks at his hands, remembering how his body disintegrated. 
“How did I get here?” He rubs the back of his head, feeling a headache approaching. 
“There’s much you won’t understand yet, but you have to trust me.”
“Where am I?” 
“You, in a sense, were transmitted. Your frequency fields were manipulated.”
“Can I ever leave?” John looks back at where the door was before it vanished. He suddenly feels claustrophobic.  
“After your training. Yes.” Solomon nods. “I hope you do. Because one day, you’re going to lead and expand this program.”
“How long is the training?” John’s mind paces. He nods to himself, weighing invisible options.
“As long as it takes to reach the top of the tower.”
“The tower?”
“100 floors. We’re in the basement now.”
John looks up, but all he sees is a blue sky.  
“The walls are alive; they are watching, and they will help you.”
As John fathoms exactly where Solomon says they are, the sand dissolves and the beach scene fades into a mirrored chamber. They are surrounded by their reflections, all different sizes and angles. Their medical histories and vitals are displayed translucently and just out of reach. 
John watches his heart rate spike. In response, Solomon adjusts his watch, and the room shifts again back to the beach. 
“Relax. You’ll learn to control it.”
Solomon’s voice is calm and steady, “Breathe with the waves.”
The rhythm of the ocean settles into John’s chest. His shoulders drop. His fists unclench.
“If you ever wish to leave, you can walk out. But if you stay, you’ll have it made.” Solomon steps closer. “I’ll be with you. Every step. Hey, remember your wings?” 
“I remember you not answering the radio.” John massages his temples, bracing for a migraine. 
Solomon places a metal card John’s shaking hand. It’s heavy and cold to the touch. 
“First Lieutenant Occam, will you accept the wisdom?”
John turns toward the sea, eyes locked on the infinite horizon. 
“Take this key. This does more than open doors. It can take you to anywhere you want to go. Every floor you complete, the more access you are permitted.” Solomon hands him a metal card. “After just a dozen floors, you’ll be able to travel to any time period, any place.” 
How do I even know if any of this world is real?
“If you feel, remember, and learn, and can take that knowledge with you, doesn’t that make it real?
John resonates with his words. 
“The rest of the day is yours. Go explore the halls. Relax on the beach. Tomorrow, if you decide you want to be here, then meet me in the white room for your orientation.” 
“Just remember, you can leave whenever you want.” 
“Your room is next door. There you’ll find a change of clothes, a shower, and a bed.” 
John waits until Solomon exits through the disappearing door. As soon as he is alone, he sinks to his knees. His fingers sift through the hot sand. Each grain tumbles in the breeze and scatters down the beach. The simulation is indistinguishable from reality, but he questions if it has physical or emotional boundaries. Suddenly, he feels trapped. 
With rising desperation, he thoroughly traces his scalp with his fingertips, searching feverishly for any sign of a surgical seam or implanted device. He finds nothing. This world feels real. Too real. He erratically sprints toward the shoreline, curious if the water will set him free. John charges into the surf until he loses momentum and is swept away by the churning waves. 
Underwater, he opens his eyes so he can feel the salt burning; a palate cleanser for his thoughts. Welcoming more pain, he inhales through his nose, and the water sears his sinuses. Instinctually, he bursts back to the surface, gasping for air. He helplessly pulls himself to shore. As he catches his breath, the panic leaves him. Every sensation in this world of his memories is frighteningly accurate. He decides to explore the depth of this perfect illusion. He unbuttons his G-Suit to his waist, letting the sun dry his skin. He begins the 2-mile trek inland to his childhood home. 
His wet clothes cling to his legs as he haunts the island like a living ghost. Old friends and neighbors are stunned to see him after all these years. Cars honk as they pass, drivers waving and shouting offers for rides and changes of clothes, but he waves them off. He wants to walk. He needs to feel the hot pavement under his feet. 
At the center of town, the weight of time presses heavily on his chest. The old lumber yard, where he worked every summer in high school, is gone. It is now an empty lot behind a chain-link fence. New shops crowd the horizon where once there had been an open sky. The tree he planted with his first-grade class in the square now has a vagrant sleeping in its shade. The water tower he climbed on a drunken dare when he was 16 was a proud blue sphere painted with oceans and continents, but now it has decayed. Africa has faded into the sea, and a rusted wound now spreads across South America.
Without warning, the sky darkens, matching his mood. The temperature falls. A black cloud blossoms overhead. The rain comes down in thick, warm sheets. He is only a block from home, but he still rushes into one of the new stores for shelter. Feeling like he needs to purchase something, he grabs a bottle of water. At the register, he hesitates, then runs Solomon’s key through the register like a credit card. It works. By the time he walks out the door, the Georgia rain is already gone. It cools down the pavement, and he no longer has to move along grass and shadows. 
Standing outside his house, he feels the old world seep back into him. He smells the familiar scent of summer rain on the warm pavement. The streetlight flickers weakly in the daylight, just as it always had. More paint has peeled from the porch; a few shingles have fallen from storms, but the home is exactly how he remembers it. Only the silence feels wrong. The carport is empty. No voices drift from inside. His family is not home. Only one window glows faintly, his old bedroom on the second floor. 
The front door is locked. John unconsciously lifts the potted plant beside it, expecting the spare key to be tucked beneath, but there’s nothing. Just a faint, dirt-stained outline where it once rested. He circles to the side door, but it is locked too.
He glances up at his bedroom window. The faint golden light grows brighter with each breath he takes. The glow spills outward, tracing a path for him, creeping along the siding, down the roof, along the fence ledge, and onto the old air conditioning unit. He’d snuck out that way countless times as a teenager, but this is his first time sneaking in. It was going to be his last resort, but the light makes it clear that it’s his only way. The light is the same light that guided him from the white room to the beach. 
He climbs onto the air conditioning unit. The fan bucks beneath him, the blades spinning madly. He nearly slips but catches himself just in time. He lunges for the top of the fence, hoisting himself up and planting his feet on the narrow support beam. It sways under his weight. He was much lighter back then when he was a teenager. Fearing its collapse, he scrambles up onto the roof. The shingles scrape his side as he worms his way to his feet. The golden glow quickly retreats into the bedroom window from which it came. John follows it. He lifts the window and drops his body inside. He freezes in the window’s enclave, stunned. An otherworldly woman lies effortlessly draped across his bed. She is not startled by his sudden entrance because she was patiently waiting for him. 
Her beauty rebels explanation. It takes him a moment to notice the soft electric outline tracing her body, or the crescent moon delicately painted on her forehead, pulsing with a rhythm that matches his heartbeat.
She bites her silver lips and speaks, her voice like a gentle rain. “I am your guiding light.”
John doesn’t respond, he can’t. The static hum of her energy field whispers to his spirit. In a trance, he takes in her features: high cheekbones, small nose, and eyes like twin oceans illuminated from within. She looks young, but her gaze carries the weight of time.
She smiles, and her halo brightens. 
“We won’t ever be the same.” He hears her words inside his head, but she doesn’t speak. 
With a fluid motion, she props herself up, arches her back, and adjusts her dress. The fabric clings to her form, beating faintly with geometric patterns like circuitry. Her hair is midnight black, braided with a crimson ribbon, and threaded with tiny, flickering lights. John lingers on the shape of her body a little too long, but eventually returns to her eyes. 
“I-I-do? I know you?” John stutters. At the moment, it’s all he can manage under the gravity of her beauty.
“You know me. And you love me. You love me the way you love yourself in those rare moments when you defy reason and land gently in truth.”
Her lashes flutter like butterfly wings, and for a split second, her irises flash white. Her presence is supernatural but inviting and even heavenly. 
“Are you... an angel?” he asks, trying to ground her in something familiar.
“For some, yes,” she answers, stepping closer. “But for you, I am more. We are intertwined.”
“My subconscious?” he guesses, noticing constellations softly materializing across her dress.
“I am the mirror of your soul.”She rises, extending her arms. Inked along her forearm are two serpents spiraling into a double helix.
“We are intertwined,” she repeats in a soft sweet voice. 
“What is your name?” 
“I am the Oracle, the daughter of desire.” She bows gracefully.
“Are you artificial intelligence?” 
“I am emotional intelligence. There is nothing artificial about me.” Her eyes flare white again. 
“So you can see the future?” 
“Yes. I have visions, and I can read harmonies. I make prophecies based on what I have seen and what the waves tell me. In time, I will show you. Do you have any idea why you’re here?” she changes the subject, slowly moving toward him. He can hear his heartbeat drumming in his ears. His face gets warm and red. 
John hesitates. “I was told… I’m going to be a surgeon.” He feels dumb saying that out loud. 
“The ultimate healer.” She nods. 
He scans her face searching for honesty. “Has my mind been cloned? Split?”
She shakes her head gently. “There is only one of you, John. And you’re here…with me. Your mind, body, and soul exist beyond the ordinary plane. You’re inside the Black Tower.”
“Ordinary plane?” John sighs. 
“Yes, but you can always return when you wish.” She purses her lips, maybe in doubt. 
“And how do you know that?” 
She exhales, almost sadly. “I don’t want to discourage you, but I’ve been here for ages. Age is a part of my nature. Even before the tower, my soul has walked through many lifetimes.”  She pauses. “And like the others, I imagine your destiny here will be much shorter than mine.”
“If you can leave whenever, why haven’t you left yet?” John asks. 
“My destiny has not been fulfilled. God has not given me my time yet.” 
“When will I know when it’s my time?” John begs. 
“Not until you learn the truths,” she says softly.
“And if I fail?”
She reaches for his hand, guiding it beneath her dress to the warmth of her skin, over her heart. The world dissolves into a beautiful mirage. The visions flood in. He sees himself atop the tower, hundreds of feet in the air, locked in a final embrace with her as the sun melts into the horizon. She kisses him with all her soul. Pain and numbness crawls up each one of his vertebrae. 
Then, biting his lip, she pulls him back. 
John opens his eyes, breathless, aching to return to the vision despite the pain. He leans in again, and she kisses him, this time with pity on the forehead. 
“Where did you come from?” he asks.
“I am a priestess of Avalon. I came here at the will of God, to guide those chosen to their purpose.”
“Much more romantic than the Air Force,” John jests. 
She doesn’t understand, and doesn’t bother to. Instead, she touches his cheek. 
“Your purpose is to be the Surgeon.” 
Her hand drops to his chest. 
“There is something else.” Her eyes are worried. Her fingers circle his heart. 
“A warrior,” she says, almost scared. 
“A warrior?” John sighs. 
“A merlin,” she marvels at the significance.  
“The greatest Merlins are both master healers and warriors. Time will tell.” 
“For now, your purpose is to conquer the tower.”
John looks away. 
“I know you’re confused and frustrated,” she says, her voice turning tender. “But life as you knew it wasn’t so different from this place. That, too, was a black box, and you conquered it. That’s why you were chosen.”
“Who chose me?” 
“I did.” She bats her eyes again. John’s insides get warmer and the pain of the vision slightly returns.  
She glances toward the door. It begins to glow.
“Where’s my family?” he asks, voice cracking.
“They love you, John. But they are not here. This world is for you alone. They know where you are, and they’re proud of you. I promise that. I have a family of my own waiting on me. I know how you feel.” 
“If you have existed since Avalon, how is your family still waiting on you?” 
“Time moves differently for the Sleeping Queen.” She rolls her catlike eyes. 
“Can I talk to my family?”
“Climb enough floors, and you can talk to anyone you like. But for now, you need to focus.”
She gestures toward the door. “Go now. You’ll need rest for tomorrow.”
He lingers. “But... how will I find you again? What if I need you?”
“If your prayer is true,” she says, smiling, “I will be summoned.”
He drops to his knees, heart full, praying not to leave.
Her glow intensifies in response, and a soft blush colors her cheeks. “See? I’ve been summoned.”
She pulls him off his knees and leads him toward the door in her bare feet. 
“What if you want to see me?” he asks, stopping her. 
“If I want to see you,” she says with a spark in her eyes, “you’ll see signs.”
“Remember, it all comes back to you.” The Oracle, unties her crimson ribbon from her hair and hands it to John. 
He feeds it through his key, using it as a lanyard. 
John walks toward the light, glancing back at the oracle one last time he disappears. John teleports to the white room, the oracle still imprinted on the inside of his eyelids. He blinks, once, twice, three times, until she fades into the white. He drifts through the sterile halls, uninterested with what lies behind them. He goes to his room and crashes on his narrow bed. He stares at a detailed map of the tower painted onto the wall and quickly falls asleep with his G-suit on, still sandy and a bit wet from his beach excursion. He wakes, feeling rejuvenated, inspired, and even proud. He obeys Solomon’s orders and returns to the white room for orientation.

Solomon sits at a cluttered desk, papers scattered everywhere. When John enters, he motions toward the empty chair across from him. 
“Take a seat,” Solomon says. “I see you found the clothes I laid out for you.” 
John nods.
“How did you like her?” 
“The Oracle…she’s beautiful.” 
“She’s more than that, she’s enchanted. She will help you spirit while you are here. Let her be your voice of reason.”
John nods. 
“Now that you’ve had some time to adjust, I think it’s time I answer a few of your questions.”
He organizes the papers into a neat stack and slides them across the desk.
“This is your contract. 43 pages that protect us from you…and you from us.”
He paused, letting his words settle.
“Life inside the Tower is much like it was out there. Your chances of injury are low, but not nonexistent. You might cut yourself or miss a step. This contract ensures we’re not liable for natural accidents, but it also outlines your stake in company.”
John flips through the pages, eyes scanning the dense, cryptic language.
“So if I get hurt in here… I get hurt out there?”
“Exactly,” Solomon slowly shakes his head. “Same reality. Different dimension.”
He takes the stack of paper from John’s gaze and thumbs to the back. 
“This is what you want to read.” Solomon hands the contract back to John pointing at the financial compensation and the fiscal projections of the black tower project. 
“If you complete the Tower, we’ll be able to duplicate your cognitive experience – your knowledge – and share it with the world.”
He leans in. His voice is low but fervent. “John, your life rights are not only a fortune, but think about all the lives you will save.” 
After counting the zeroes, John looks up, searching Solomon’s face for signs of deception but finds none.  
“Am I… taking over your position?”
“No,” Solomon laughs, leaning back. “My job was to recruit a pilot.”
John scoffs, still baffled that they would kidnap a pilot and put him through virtual med school. “Why not recruit a surgeon?”
Solomon stands. 
“They didn’t want a surgeon. They wanted a blank slate. A prototype. Someone without habits, or bias. Someone they could mold. They wanted someone they could measure. They wanted you.” 
He paces, but his eyes never leave John’s. 
“They wanted a fighter pilot because hundreds of studies told them that was the life path with the most commonalities outside of the medical world.” Solomon watches John connect the dots before continuing.
“Pilots, like surgeons, make rapid critical decisions where lives are on the line. The choices made require extreme precision and confidence. Under the stress, you must be calm, focused, and ready to improvise.” 
Solomon pauses, letting the silence hang.
The praise makes John feel uncomfortable and he doesn’t know where to look.  
“You, like a surgeon, followed strict protocols to minimize errors. You were trained in a team setting and taught how to communicate under fire. Flying miles in the sky, you mastered complex systems. You became one with your machine, always aware of your changing surroundings. Traveling damn near at speed of light, your motor skills were exact and even artistic. Your missions are long and demanding. You proved to have unwavering endurance and ability to function under fatigue during your 18 missions.” 
Solomon takes a much needed breath. 
 “In basic, you scored in the top percentile in your aptitude test.” Solomon sits back down and catches eyes with John. 
“There were many others but you were chosen to be the surgeon because of your soul.” 
The chain, our founders, wanted you for your looks. Said you’d be more marketable.” Solomon dryly laughs. 
He opens his palms. “Any other questions?”
John absorbs all the information and scans his brain for any doubts or fears but comes up empty. Instead, he considers all of the unworldly technology and asks, “What fuels the Tower? I mean, all the simulations, what runs it all?”
Solomon grins like a banshee. “Harmonics fields.” 
“And those are not simulations.” Solomon corrects him. “Those are parallel universes. The people you operate on are real living people, just from another reality.” 

John gets a surge of anxiety.

“My house was empty!” 

“Did you ----”
“Relax!” Solomon stops him before he can start. 
“You and your family, in that reality were relocated. We didn’t want you running into a version of yourself or your family. That is your home, it’s your crate. You need it to relax and to ground yourself, remind yourself of who you are. You and your family ‘won the lottery’ and they live in Florida.” 
John takes a moment to absorb all the information. 
John, they wouldn’t really be your family. There would be something off about them and it would drive you mad. It’s better this way.” 
John nods, accepting his reasoning. 
“The room, is it transmitted like I was?” 
“Yes, each time you walk into a room, the key in your pocket is tuning your frequencies and syncing them to controlled alternate realities using harmonics.” 
“The doors are portals to other, real worlds. We call them gates.” 
 
Solomon sits back, eyebrows raised. “The Tower is the same as the Giza pyramid. It’s a harmonic anchor used to collect and channel energy and information.” 
It’s like a solar panel for but for harmonics.” 
“And harmonics can do much more than sunlight.” 

“Who used the Giza pyramids?”
“The people living in the tunnels beneath them.”
“Why tunnels? Because of… nuclear fallout? Climate collapse?”
Solomon burst into laughter. “I don’t know. Climate change is just propaganda. It has been for over 100 years.” 
“Anyway, let’s not get too far off track.” Solomon straightens. 
“Look, I’ll give you an hour to review everything. If you want out, walk through that door. Your life will go back to normal. If you have any questions I can find the answers.” 
 “How long?”
“Time moves differently for the king.” He winks. 
You’ll undergo 300 surgeries. It’ll feel like four years to you, but in the outside world? Just a few days, a long dream. 
“How is that possible?” 
“Gravity is different here.” 
“They are working on reducing the downloading time to a matter of minutes. Soon hours will equate to years.” 
John remembers the kiss the oracle showed him at the top of the Tower.
“I don’t need any more time,” he confidently says. “I’ll sign now.”
“Give me your thumb,” 
Solomon retrieves a small, ornate key, similar to the one he gave to John. He used its edge to slice John’s finger.
“Press it here.”
John leaves his bloody print at the bottom of the contract.
“Now we got you soul.” Solomon winks. 
He collects the papers and tucks them into a briefcase. From it, he pulls a tattered tunic.
“You’ll want to change into this.” He tosses it to John.
“Room 1029. Use your key.”
“Wait, when do I become the Warrior.” 
“Never. There is no Warrior. Just the Surgeon.” Solomon looks confused. 
“You are saving lives, not taking them.” 
“Sorry, I thought I saw that in the contract.” John lies, catching himself. 
Without another word, Solomon leaves.
John walks down the hall wearing a cloth that covers only his right shoulder and most of his loins. He has a sense of humor and embraces what lies behind the 1029. 
And for the first time in a long time, he feels ready.
On the other side of the door, the humidity wraps about him like a warm blanket. Bird calls echo through the trees, blending with the constant hum of insects mating in the thick air. Slivers of light seep through the gaps in the bamboo walls, but the room remains mostly dark. As his eyes adjust, he stumbles over a ring of stones outlining a fire pit in the center of the space. He falls to his hands and knees and feels the cool, packed earth beneath him. 
Crawling toward a rectangle of light, he realizes it is a closed window and pushes it outward, letting the sunlight in. Outside, dense jungle surrounds a small clearing where the hut sits. Clothes hang on a line, and a chicken flutters up, squawking as it lands on the thatched roof. Inside, the hut is larger than expected, almost 20 feet long and 15 feet wide. There are no walls, dividers, or any evidence of privacy. Clay pots, mats, and hammocks are strung from the hardwood rafters. John runs his finger along one of the beams, feeling the groves left by a tool used to strip the bark. From the ceiling, bundles of drying plants dangle alongside tools and weapons. Above the door, there is a bouquet of ornate feathers and a ceremonial mask.
He takes the mask off the frame and inspects it under the window light. It is carved from a soft wood, stained light blue, and decorated with rows of ornate, white beads. At a closer look, the beads are organized into intricate geometric shapes, like a circuit board. The design reminds him of the light pattern on the oracle’s dress. He raises the mask to his face and peers through the eye holes. 
At that moment, a small child, no older than 5, bursts through the door. Seeing John in the mask, the boy gasps and loses his feet. On the floor, he scrambles away from John in fear. John immediately drops the mask, yelling, “Stop, it’s okay!” 
The boy stops trying to escape and looks at John holding his palms open to show that he is not a threat. He doesn’t understand his words. 
“I’m sorry,” John tries again. He drops down to his knees. 
The child’s fear briefly subsides but is quickly replaced by panic. He grabs John by the arm and urgently pulls him out of the hut. 
They follow a narrow jungle path. There are other huts like the one they left that are barely visible through the foliage. The trail opens to a larger clearing. John assumes it’s a communal space, and imagines fires and dancing. Just beyond, the path becomes rougher, gnarled with roots, and littered with thorns and other sharp plants. John slows down, calculating each stride while the small child with calloused feet maintains his speed and looks over his shoulder at John with confusion and secondhand embarrassment. John searches for his masculinity but instead finds his adrenaline. He overcomes the pain and catches up to the child. 
The air cools and the road softens as the sound of a river and frantic voices grows louder. The voices, like the river, are smooth but the flow is fast. The nasal tones climb and fall almost like a natural song. As they rush towards the spewing commotion, he gets lost in their ever-flowing consonants. On the riverbank, a group of anxious women cluster around a small girl lying beneath a tree. Her calf bleeds heavily, her face is flushed, and she has cried all of her tears. A jagged bamboo shoot lies nearby. John understands that she has fallen from the tree above and impaled her leg. The wound is about 3 inches long and bleeding too much to heal on its own. 
John motions to the boy, pointing to the river. Moments later, the child returns with a wooden bowl filled with water. John rinses the wound, cleaning away dirt and revealing the true depth of the cut of about half an inch. John tears a strip from his tunic to absorb the blood. The wound needs stitching. He looks at the distressed girl and then at the hopeful boy who has been guiding him. The only real difference between them is their hair length. John suspects that he must be her younger brother, and maybe even the reason she fell out of the tree. John can use that guilt to his advantage. 
He gestures a weaving motion to the women, mimicking the act of sewing, but they only look at him blankly. Then the boy returns, fearfully holding a leaf with an angry soldier ant. 
“No,” John mutters, shaking his head. He almost swats it away. 
But the boy insists, thrusting the ant toward him. As the leaf nears, it begins to glow. John raises it to eye level, watching as the light transfers into the ant’s oversized mandibles. John makes the bizarre connection. 
“Here?” John points at the any, then at the girl’s wound. 
The boy nods. 
John gently pulls the flaps of skin together with his left hand. The girl trembles and lets out a cry. 
You’re going to be okay,” he says, knowing she can’t understand him, but hoping the tone comforts her.
Carefully, he grips the ant, firm enough to keep it from escaping but not enough to crush it. He moves it toward the wound ultra slowly giving the crowd of women watching the chance to object but none of them do. The girl turns her head away. The ant trashes in between his fingers and then sinks its jaws on each side of the wound. It clamps down, stapling the lower edge of the cut. She winces more from revulsion than pain. 
The guiding light moves from the ant’s jaws into his body. He twists off the body leaving just the head. 
Still pinching the wound closed, he shouts, “Go!”
The guilt-ridden boy dashes into the jungle and returns with another ant, this one larger than the first. John repeats the process, allowing the ant to bite just above the other and then decapitating it. The boy runs back into the jungle for another ant without being told. Six ants later and the wound is sealed. 
A woman steps forward with tree sap, dabbing it gently over the sutured area, careful not to disturb the ant heads. 
“Antiseptic,” John notes. 
A hollow beam of light rakes across his chest and then his floods his field of vision, momentarily blinding him and begging him for its attention. He traces the light back edge of the jungle. There, the oracle peers out of the jungle in a white dress, holding a golden-framed mirror. John runs to her but when he reaches the tree line she is nowhere to be found. He almost summons her with a prayer but decides to wait until he really needs her. 
When he returns, the women gather around John, placing their hands on him and chanting. The warmth of their love seeps through his skin and into his veins. He feels himself glowing. In their communion, he dissolves and respawns back into the white room. 

Solomon gives him a standing ovation. 
Walking on air, he doesn’t notice that he’s leaving a trail of bloody footprints.
“You’re a natural!” 
“That’s that soul I was talking about!” Solomon raises his hand for a high five. 
John is too exhilarated to speak. He just slaps Solomon’s palm and then beats his chest. 
“I was going to ask how you felt,” Solomon laughs, “but just look at you. You’re still glowing!”
John glances at his hand, now softly radiating light.
“I want to feel like this forever,” he says, beaming.
“It won’t always feel this good,” Solomon replies, “so hold onto the high.”
“Let’s keep going,” John says, pulsing with momentum. “I’m ready now.”
Solomon raises a pleased eyebrow.  
“Saddle up, Mediucs.” He hands John a coarse brown tunic, leather sandals, a belt, and a linen apron.
“1077,” he adds.
John looks through the clothes Solomon interrupts him before he can guess. 
“I can’t tell you anything about the level before you get there. But I can tell you that this time will be slightly different. You will be able to visually access the patient’s vitals as well as cross language barriers. It’s not essential to the procedure, but it’s good to start familiarizing yourself with the technology. 
John nods, embracing what’s next. 

As he steps into the cool, damp, room the musky scent of blood, sweat, and earth drags him back in time. Suddenly, he’s 14 again, rummaging through mildewed jars in his grandparents’ root cellar, searching for his grandfather’s secret pack of cigarettes. When his grandfather would notice that a few were missing, he would always hide them behind a different jar or shelf, but he never moved them outside of the cellar. Over the course of a year, the cigarettes moved hiding places a dozen times but he never confronted John about them. It was their unspoken bond. The memory fades but the air now, like then, taste like wet metal. 
His eyes follow dust particles lazily dancing in the golden shafts of light. They drift down to dark dried stains on the stone floor underneath a solid wooden bench that occupies most of the room. As he walks to the bench, flickering oil lamps mounted on each wall project and multiply his silhouette in all directions. He steps over a bowl of cloudy wine and sits on the bench. Behind the bench, splints, linen, and leather straps are littered all over the floor. He moves to a narrow shelf lined with tools hoping to discover where he is and what procedure he will perform next. His fingers brush over scalpels, saws, and forceps examining them the same way he once sifted through crocks, thermometers, and trowels in the cellar. For a second, he can smell the smoke of his childhood. 
The deep echo of a baritone wail makes John turn towards the door. The sound was so expansive, it can only be coming from a hallway just outside. Through the thick air, he catches audible glints of the unmistakable rattle of chains drawing nearer.  He hears footsteps and muffled commands. 
A teenage boy shyly steps into the room first. He is dressed like John except his tunic and apron are stained from a day’s work.  He meets John’s eyes and then stares at the stained floor, unsure where to look. Above his head, there is a beautiful halo. The central glow remains constant, but the fringed edges breathe with a life of their own, like wildflowers dancing in the wind. As John focuses on the halo, fragments of data drift outward from the crown in a glowing static mist. The boy is unphased and seemingly unaware of his magnificent light. The cloud solidifies into legible text and numbers while still weightlessly hovering in the air. A label appears: Assistant. Below it, the vitals that Solomon mentioned are listed. Heart rate: 115 beats per minute. Body temperature: 97.6 degrees Fahrenheit. Blood pressure: 102 over 66. Age: 17. 
The boy bows his head slightly. “Salve, domine,” he says. His voice is uncertain and shaky, still adjusting to the deeper register of recent adolescence.
John doesn’t speak Latin, yet he understands the words with perfect clarity.
“Greetings, Master.”
“Hello,” he replies, bowing back, but the boy hears “Salve.” John notices the boy’s halo is incomplete. He wonders why it is only about 90 percent formed.  
“Esne paratus, domine?” the boy asks, raising his voice over the heavy panting just outside the door.
“Yes, I’m ready,” John says with the confidence of a fool.
The apprentice nods in understanding and signals to someone in the hallway.
“Nisi moritur, refice eum.”“Unless he’s dying, fix him,” The words sarcastically escape from a weathered man entering the room. A patchy beard clings to his face and his eyes shift too quickly to be trusted. His halo barely exists. It is just a weak arc flickering from his shoulder to the edge of his ear. His title “Lanista- Trainer” appears. John can see that his blood pressure and heart rate are high and that his oxygen levels are low. 
The lanista yanks a chain, dragging in what looks like a wounded soldier into the room like a dog. The man cradles one arm, limp and useless, hanging as if it belongs to the dead. A strip of linen is tightly tied around a bleeding lesion on his calf. His hair is matted to his scalp with sweat and dried blood. This is not his first injury. Even from a distance, John can see the map of scars stretched across his bare chest. 
With a shove, the lanista sends him stumbling forward. The man lets out a small cry of pain as his shackles cut into his ankles. 
John steps forward and gently guides him to a bench. Laughing, the lanista gives the soldier a dismissive kick to hurry him up. 
“Tempus tuum certe aurum est,” he mutters.Surely your time is gold
John sighs. “My time is worth more than you know.”
The lanista roughly removes the shackles. Around the man's ankles, the skin is shiny and swollen, the metal having left deep, raw impressions. Blood drips down to his toes. Faint purples and blues flower just beneath the surface. The bruises are not yet fully formed.
John glances up at the disposable man’s halo. Floating above his head, the label reads: Prisoner. 
The vitals displayed are all almost identical to John’s assistant so he guesses that he is healthy.  However, his pain is extreme. His jaw is tight, his breaths are shallow, and his eyes are distant. His halo reads somewhere in the 90’s, higher than the assistant. John stares into the prisoner’s eyes, hoping to see his reflection and his halo but there isn’t one. 
John begins his examination by gently moving his fingers along the prisoners arm, searching for the fracture. He thinks he finds the break just past the elbow but to be sure he extends the patient’s arm. The soldier jolts upright, screaming with pain. His elbow knocks John backward into a shelf, sending metal tools clattering across the room. 
The lanista laughs loudly. The assistant chuckles too, but quickly stifles it, covering his mouth.“We need a doctor for the doctor,” the lanista mocks.
John brushes himself off. The prisoner doesn’t speak, but his eyes are full of apology.“It’s not your fault,” John says softly, guiding him back to the bench.
“If you love him so much, then buy him,” the lanista jeers, still amused.
The assistant rushes forward to restrain the patient. He ties the man’s free arm across his chest with rough rope, then wraps two thick leather belts around his torso, anchoring him to the wall. The prisoner is massive; it takes effort. Once secure, the assistant gently places a leather strap between his teeth.
“Just make it quick,” the prisoner pleads through clenched jaws. “Go ahead.” 
John exhales and centers himself. He knows he has to straighten the contorted arm and line up the bones. With the assistant and lanista holding him steady, John grips both ends of the fractured arm. Slowly, he begins to pull. The man’s scream tears through the room. It is so loud and guttural that it vibrates all of the water in John’s body. John stays focused.
When the arm is fully extended, he sees the misalignment clearly – it literally glows. The lower half has twisted out of place. With one final, precise motion, John rotates the shattered bone to line up with the intact forearm.
There’s a sharp crack, then a series of wet, shifting pops. The pieces snap into place.
The soldier is nauseated from the pain. His mind sways on the edge of consciousness and then his body goes limp. John steadies him and checks the alignment of the arm. The unnatural crease is gone and there is no visible curve. 
The assistant quickly moves to prepare a splint. He places thin strips of wood carefully beneath the arm and secures it with linen bindings. Then, using more linen, he fashions a sling to immobilize it.
“We’re not done,” John says, nodding toward the soldier’s leg.
He kneels beside the bloody calf and removes the soiled wrapping. Beneath it, a deep gash yawns open like a raw mouth. The edges of the wound curl back, pale and lifeless, like corpse lips. As John leans in, the wound begins to shimmer. Tiny, glowing particles flicker within. John believes each infected cell is illuminated like a pixel. 
He takes a bowl of wine and slowly pours it over the open wound. The liquid washes away much of the glowing contamination, but a flap of diseased skin clings stubbornly to the edge of the wound is still lit with warning.
The assistant hands John a pair of scissors. 
John cuts carefully, removing the dead, infected flesh. The soldier turns his head away. Next, the assistant offers a small bronze plate with a threaded needle resting on it. Then he steps back into place, resuming his grip on the soldier’s shoulders.
The needle isn’t sharp, and John has to force it through the toughened skin. He sews quickly, pulling the thread tight, closing the wound stitch by stitch.
When it’s done, the lanista claps once and gives a mocking bow. “He’ll fight again.”
He tosses John a leather pouch. “Five denarii for the stitching. Fifteen for the arm.”
Inside the pouch are small silver coins, each no bigger than a dime, stamped with the worn profile of Caesar. John accepts the payment, feeling like a gladiator earning his freedom  
Once everyone exits, the doorway back to the white room reappears. John stumbles towards it but stops in his tracks when he sees a set of white eyes, hungry for conversation, peering in at him from the shadows of the hallway.  He steps forward, hoping to connect once more with the oracle. He has so many questions he wants to ask her. Just as he begins to follow, a procession of chained prisoners shuffles past, flanked by armed guards. When the hallway clears, the eyes are gone. John wonders if they were ever there at all. 
John gets on his hands and knees and silently prays with his whole heart, summoning the Oracle. He feels her presence, but she does not reveal herself. 
“I feel you. I’ve seen you. Please, let me know you are here!” he calls out. 
Suddenly, the numbness he felt when she first kissed him in the tower vision returns and a command invades his mind. 
“Become the warrior.” 
He climbs to his feet and exits to the white room. 
As anticipated, Solomon is waiting. John tosses him the silver coins. 
“The 20 denarii,” Solomon says, catching it midair. “That’s about 1200 dollars. You’ll see it on your key.” 
John frowns. “What do I need money for?” 
“Help. Instruments. Surgical tools. Insurance.” 
The thought of finances overwhelms him. He changes the subject. “I saw the halos.” 
“You’ll be seeing more each surgery from here on out.” 
“I’m here for it,” John mutters. 
“How’s your shoulder?” 
John rotates his arm. It is still sore from being thrown into the shelves.” 
“Your feet?” 
He glances at bloodied blisters in his sandals. 
“I’ll fight again.” John laughs. 
“Take a few days off. Go travel to any place in the world. You’ve done good.” 
“How many more until I advance to the next level.” 
“One more.” 
“I want to do it now, and then I want the 5 days to myself.” 
“Spoken like a true surgeon.” 
John looks to his feet. “Where’s the Oracle?” 
“She has decided to return home. If you see her, just let me know where.” 
“AWOL.” He smiles like it’s not a big deal. 
John decides to keep her appearances to himself. 
Solomon opens a locker and hands John a bag and knee high leather boots. Inside, there is a gray wool jacket with black trim, a cotton shirt and apron, and a faded pair of trousers, 
“The South will rise again.” Solomon laughs alone. 
“1592.” 

Under a quilted canvas tent, John stands near the center pole, watching the clouds gather and sink into the horizon. The crowded tent is full of sobs and screams. Beyond the canvas walls, crackling waves of muskets and rifle fire are each followed by a deep rumble. John can’t tell if it’s artillery or the anger of the approaching storm. The temperature drops, covering everything in sweat. The flies feast on a smorgasbord of gore piled in the tent’s corners. The halos above the men’s heads are barely glowing, as they fight their wars of endurance, clinging to their unkempt souls. 
Doc, Doc, Doc!” There is no time for introductions.  
His assistant, labeled clearly in his dimly lit halo, is not even old enough to grow facial hair. His arms are stained with dried blood past his elbows, his eyes are sunken in his face and webbed with red veins, and his skin is jaundice. He absently scratches his neck and scalp, smearing his previous patient’s blood across his collar and in his hair. He notices John inspecting the scabs around his cuffs. 
“The ictchin’ aint the worst, it’s the chirping that drives you mad.” 
John’s skin crawls. He begins to itch just at the thought of chirping lice. 
The boy drags him to a makeshift table; a wooden door balanced across two empty barrels. Pine straw is scattered beneath the table to absorb the blood. A wounded soldier is hastily hauled onto the slab by two of his comrades. His leg has been blown apart. John passes a bottle of whiskey to the patient and then takes two swigs himself. Learning from his previous mistake, he motions to the men who helped the patient onto the table to hold him down. When they pin down his shoulders, John ties a bloody rope above the knee, just above the exposed bone. He feels the warmth of his blood and the loosening of the man’s soul as it slowly drifts out of his body. As he tightens the rope, a light pulses deep beneath the skin of his upper thigh. The light turns into letters as it rises to the surface.  The Oracle’s shimmering message reads, “MIRROR.” It dissipates back into the flesh as soon as John reads it. Confused and distracted, John drops the mangled leg and it claps onto the table. The soldier screams in agony. John apologizes as he scans the room for a mirror or his guiding light but finds neither.  
He closes his eyes and begins to pray amid the chaos. 
“Doc!” his assistant shouts over the surrounding cries, demanding his attention. He hands John a scalpel. John focuses on the mangled leg, and his vision shifts until the leg becomes transparent. He can see shattered bones, blown veins, and scrapes of metal. John immediately adjusts to this upgrade. Time is short, so John scrapes with purpose. The soldier only whimpers because he is too weak to scream. John cleans the meat from the bone. It dangles like the tail of a kite. His desensitized assistant doesn’t look away. John cuts it loose and makes a wet noise as it lands in the pine straw. Blood pulses from the open stump every time the soldier’s heart beats. John roughly stitches the severed arteries, enough to slow the bleeding. He then takes the saw. A few fast strokes and the bone drops onto the pile of discarded flesh. This time, there is no scream. John checks his vitals in his halo, and he is only unconscious from the pain. 
The boy pulls the flaps of skin and holds them over the shaved bone.  John sews the flaps together.  The rush is done, but the work is not over. The boy points to the blood seeping past the seams. 
“Gotta brand ‘em” 
A runner passes a hot iron into John’s hands. He presses it hard into the stump until hissing fades and the smell of scorched flesh fills the tent. 
“He’s going to live?” John asks, unsure of his handywork. 
“For a day or two,” the boy says, smiling dryly. 
He hands John the bottle of whisky. John takes another pull. His insides are flooded with warmth, his vision fades, and he feels himself being transferred back to the white room. 
John no longer walks on water. The weight of his heavy head drags his feet forward. 
Solomon absorbs John’s fatigue. 
John glances out of the corner of his eye and mutters, “You looking at my halo?” 
“You don’t have a halo.” 
“Why not?” he squints. 
“You don’t need to be distracted.” 
Solomon takes the whisky from his bloodied hands.
 “I’ll add this to your account. Worth a hell of a lot more than Confederate paper.” 
He swigs from the bottle and coughs until the burn leaves. He spits and then takes in a deep refreshing breath of air. 
“You gotta take the good with the bad.”
“Eventually,” Solomon continues, “you’ll be able to choose your surgeries and your price.” 
John sighs, feeding his burnout. 
“Get over yourself,” Solomon says sharply. “Take your 5 days.” 
John Stumbles out of the white room. 

John closes his eyes. He sees only orange, muffled light filtering through his eyelids. Behind his eyes, a flustered movie of the Oracle skips scenes, reliving their moments together and predicting the future. Entranced, he obsesses not only on her beauty but on her absence and the doubt it casts on the Tower and his role as the surgeon. He wants to sleep, but these worried thoughts hold him for ransom. He accepts that his rebellious mind will keep bucking sleep until he has answers. He decides to search for the Oracle or her “mirror” in all of the places that he has seen her, even though he does not know how to fully navigate the Tower. He dresses in the black hooded tunic that was provided for him. The hood shadows his face. 
In the wake of the rain, the heat rises from the earth, covering the ground in an earthly cloud. The Confederate surgical tent is empty. John carefully steps over soiled tools and discarded clothing, hoping he doesn’t step on any unwanted parts. Outside, dozens of campfires contribute to the haze. Laughter and singing drift across the clearing, and the smell of pipe tobacco makes him homesick. John roams the outskirts of the camps searching for signs of the Oracle or the mirror she mentioned until the fires are ousted. In the dark, he boldly peers inside along tents, dodging drunken patrollers as they make their rounds. As dawn strikes, horses neigh, the tents rustle, and the air is heavy. In the light, there are not many places for John to hide and he dosen’t think they will take too kindly to his black tunic. John wishes to leave before they get into formation but he’s never left own his own before. He has always just disintegrated back to the white room once his missions were completed. He holds up his key, the only tool he possesses. It flashes white with the same surge of the Oracle’s eyes. Hopefully, he lifts it towards the sky and the key summons a portal. A rectangle of light grows rapidly until it swallows him, transmuting him back into his bedroom. He helplessly lies on his floor, waiting until his stomach stops dropping. He will never get use to the feeling. 
A second wind carries him to the Roman hallway where the Oracle spoke to his soul. Now the auditoriums are empty and echoing. Each step he takes announces his solitude. There are no mirrors, only internal reflections of doubt and longing. He does not feel her presence and leaves after a few hours. 
He spawns into the rainforest where he had last seen her with the mirror. The forest floor underneath the canopy is cool and damp. The river is within earshot. The sun lifts itself over the brush and is momentarily eclipses a man walking too tall to be native. Solomon steps through knee high grass toward the tree line. His face never leaves his watch. John suspects that they are both searching for the Oracle, but for different reasons. Unwilling to explain himself, John avoids being seen by lying on his stomach. In the shadows, he watches an ant, just like the one he used as a make-shift stitch, carrying the weight of the world on its back. He recognizes himself in the selfless laborer. Once Solomon is well inside the jungle, John flees. He feels even further from the Oracle than he did just yesterday. He ties her crimson ribbon tightly around his wrist. Every time his heart beats, he thinks about her. 
Although he hasn’t slept in over two days, John continues to where he first unexpectedly met the Oracle. Even though it has been dark for quite some time, the sand still retains the Georgia heat. The waves drunkenly crash into shore and the moonlight really does dance on the wake. Each star in the night sky hangs low and has its own halo. He lays on his back to absorb the beauty. He notices the syncopation of his breathing to the sound of the waves. The salty air and the natural beach music lulls him to sleep. He rests for what seems like an hour, but he really can’t be sure because he has no point of reference. He awakes to a beautiful sunrise. It’s broken yoke bleeds into the pink and purple clouds. The epicenes of the sky encourages him to finish his journey home despite his tiredness. As soon as he arrives and he plants himself face first into his childhood bed.
The dream begins mundane and unrememberable, but then turns sour and uncanny. John tries to wake, but sleep paralysis keeps him still. He leaves his body not knowing where he will go next, a feeling that he has experienced already many times since living in the Tower. He is overwhelmed by colors, trapped in a kaleidoscopic world of uncertainty. There is a deafening static hum that renders him useless. Out of the colorful abyss, an angelic figure appears. She is dressed in black. Not a morbid black but an endless black dress. The heavy black curtain pulls all of the colors toward, absorbing them and releasing him of all his earthly anxieties. All John feels is love and warmth. All he sees is the oracle and her beautiful blackness. When the erratic colors clear, John realizes that they are on the beach. The angel effortlessly slides her dress down to her narrow waist and then lets it fall to her ankles. She has curves like mountains that rise and fall into the ocean with every breath she takes. Her skin glows like the moon. She has a tattoo of a snake constricting her wrist. Her naked beauty draws him closer, just like the colors were pulled into the black. Her skin is warm silk, and he feels the weight of her curves pressing into him, absorbing him. Everything turns black. 
“Wake up,” she speaks through him. “The time is now.” 
Stunned, he jumps up in bed and kicks himself onto the floor. He rushes over to the sink and splashes water onto his face and into his mouth. He looks into his mirror and his reflection is off. His features are soft and slowly start becoming more feminine as each second passes. Finally, his face turns into the Oracle. She pulls him into the mirror and kisses him. His body in one world, her body in another. She sucks the air out of his lungs and replaces it with her own sedating breath. Her kiss shows him a flicker of a premonition. The Tower buckles on itself and collapses into flames. 
She reaches for his palm, and without spoken words, she transmits another understanding through her touch. Just like his sleep paralysis, he is motionless in front of the mirror, but his family blurs around him at an accelerated rate. They are aging while he stands still.  After taking all he can he surrenders himself and, the room changes. He sees the Oracle’s family transition from youth to dirt in a stop-motion time lapse. He understands that time is not what it seems, despite what they have been told. In order to see his family before they are reduced to dirt he needs to escape the Tower. John looks into her eyes and they dilate. She can feel his trust. She lets go and he climbs into the mirror after her. 

On the other side, the atmosphere is golden and heavy. The hazy air is so intoxicatingly rich and thick that the light wades through it, casting an unworldly golden shimmer on all that it touches. The heavenly radiance seeps beneath his skin. His insides hum as he breathes in the love. 
She walks ahead of him barefoot, her beautiful swaying figure eclipsing the sun. She leads him down a ravine into a pasture of wild, white sunflowers. Their enormous stalks are an impossible green, and their pale crowns tower above them. Without a horizon line, John quickly loses all sense of direction, but the Oracle is unbothered and needs no visual paths as she effortlessly navigates through the maze. John notices, that wherever she moves, the wild flowers bow, turning their faces toward her, then wilt in submission. 
“Nature always bends to the will of the Queen.” She reads his mind and holds his palm. 
Her eyes glisten, and she bites her lip. Here, she looks more human. She doesn’t have the electric white eyes; they are blue. 
“My blue-eyed Gemini.” John thinks to himself. 
They emerge from the sunflowers and reach a thicket, where a Spanish oak stretches its arm nearly to the ground, offering the perfect seat. They sit, listening to nature’s chirps. 
Her voice, at last, breaks the quietness they have shared. “Kyrana,” she whispers. “That’s my name.” 
“Kyrana,” John repeats. 
“Gravity is different here. Time moves slower.” She puts her hand on his lap. 
“We’ve been conditioned to believe otherwise.” Her expression softens. “Everyone I love-” she pauses and corrects herself, “almost everyone has left this world a thousand years ago.” 
John gazes into her eyes and imagines her struggle. 
“Like you, I once believed I could go back and return unchanged. That the world would stop spinning and wait for me.” 
Her eyes drift towards the horizon. “We’ve been stolen from time, John. We exist between worlds.” 
A tear swells in the crease of her eye and slides down her face. She huffs, “I chose you, John. I brought you here. In a way, I helped build this world.” She does her best to hold back the tears. 
John catches her in his arms. 
“Can’t we just travel back?” He asks quietly over the sobs, afraid of her answer. 
“Our path, this life, has already been witnessed by God. It carries more weight.” 
“Witnessed?” 
“Yes. It has become part of our destiny.” She sighs. “When you go against destiny it only ends in suffering.”
“We can travel to other worlds and other times, but returning times returning to old lives…” she shakes her head. “That is difficult. ”
“The die is cast. The damage is done. Even if you go back, you will be living a life in vain, against your purpose. That will eat away at your soul. Choosing your fate over God’s always ends tragically, for God knows best.” 
She stands tall and steps back from him. “We must accept our fate, however, you still have time.” 
“What do I do?” His eyes widen.  
“You must become the Warrior.” 
As if to punctuate her words, a gust of wind howls and heat lightning dances in the distance. 
“The Warrior,” he echoes.
“But first,” she continues. “You must earn the freedom to use the Tower to travel where ever you wish. After, you must conjure up an army. You must walk the different gates and quietly recruit soldiers. You must bring them to Avalon.” 
“How? John demands. “They don’t know of the Tower,” he rationalizes. “And Avalon? What is Avalon?” 
An excited smile returns to her face. “Avalon,” she repeats, wondering where to begin. “You will learn that Avalon is not only a place but a state of mind.” 
“I’ve been hiding there.” 
“Why?” 
“Because the Tower is aware that I know the truth about our fates,” she says softly. 
“Kyrana, how do I recruit?” 
“Start with the places that you have been, the people you have helped,” she says hopefully. “Use the tools you have to enchant them. They will follow you. Bring them to me, and I will train the rebels. However, you must keep Solomon close.” 
“What tools?” 
“The Tower will gift you blue tools as you advance. You will use those tools for healing, but you can also use them to bend others to your will. In time, I will show you. When you receive them we will start your training.” 
John’s voice hardens, and he summarizes the plan, “We will stage a rebellion, and destroy the Tower, and escape together.”
“It’s our destiny, I know you’ve seen it.” Her nose creases when she smiles. 
John remembers their kiss, and the Tower crumbled to the ground, engulfed in flames. 
Feeling overwhelmed, John asks, “How do you know we will make it?” 
“Faith,” she says simply. “Channel your faith, and it will become reality. Without faith, we are nothing.” 
“How is all of this possible?” 
She thinks for a moment, choosing her words carefully. Her eyes light up. “Music, there’s a reason why we are drawn to it.” 
She explains, “Our universe is harmonic at every scale. You can feel the power, even just listening to a song. Harmonies are the foundation of our existence and of the stars and moons. Understand music and you will understand the world around you. Like music, our world is rooted in primes, not 0’s and 1’s.” 
John appreciates the simplified answer. 
“My people of Avalon took these patterns and learned what it meant to be alive.” She expresses stoically, remembering another time. 
“Consciousness?” 
She nods. “When you know the purpose, you know the song. You can effortlessly travel to the next note. You can read not only harmonies, but destinies. We are all just adding to the song, seeing glimpses of what God sees as the conductor.” 
“How do I see what God sees?” 
She pulls him in close. “The closest to God you can be is in a song. Start by writing music. Use your words. Create harmonies. Write about what you know and what you want to know. Write about what you love and what you are grateful for. And remember, the most powerful songs are prayers.”
“Can you play?” 
“Some guitar,” John shrugs. 
“Ask for one and the Tower will give it to you.” 
The joy in her face is replaced by seriousness. “The tower stole the notes from Avalon, but they do not know the greater composition. As they learn the song, I fear they could be reckless. The scientists call it the code or the equation. However, when they first discovered us using it, it was called a spell, and we were witches. They tried to send us to hell.” 
Her eyes darken. “I trusted them with my destiny, and they betrayed me. After confronting them, they tried to take me from time. I escaped, and now they are hunting me. Who knows what else they are capable of.” 
John reaches out and touches her arm. “How do I complete the levels without you? How will we plan our escape? Will I not draw attention, if I keep returning to you here?” 
“Mirrors! Our souls are connected. When you need me, find a reflection and we can be together. As long as I am at the lake in Avalon, where I plan to stay until the time is right, I will receive you. My powers are too great at the lake for the tower to stop me. But just as you need me, I need you.” 
She runs her fingers thought his hair. “We must proceed.” 
They leave the oak branch and trek through the woods. They make it onto a grassy hill overlooking glassy water as far as the eye can see. The lake catches the light and shines like polished silver, a giant mirror.
“Welcome to Avalon.” 
John peers at the cluster of rooftops and dirt roads nestled along the shoreline. 
“Before we lodging and mingling with the priestesses,” she says, “we must purify ourselves in the lake.” 
At the lake, she walks into the water fully clothed. Her dress clings to her curves and reveals more of her graceful figure with every forward movement. The water bites him, but he endures the cold because of her enchanting shape. Slowly, his body numbs. The numbness releases all of his earthly thoughts and carnal desires. The deeper he goes, the more he lets go until the lake completely dissolves his perceptual veils that bind him to survival. In this psychedelic state, he bypasses language and perceives the world directly through patterns, connections, and fields. Without thinking, he understands the order hidden in the chaos. He knows and feels how the Tower harnesses the equation, the harmonic blueprint. 
Kyrana pulls him to shore. The sun kisses his skin, and he blushes all over. He tries to hold onto the feelings and understandings he made in the lake, but they fade like dreams. Within minutes they are lost, but he remembers the essence. 
“I will teach you to master the lake. Consciousness is liquid.” She dips her fingers into water. “Your thoughts ripple.”
“After you master the lake,  you will be able to your harness the true power of your consciousness without using tools.” 
“Tools?” 
“The key you carry is a tool. It syncs your resonance allowing you to travel.” 
“There will be more. They simulate aspects of the lake allowing you to discover on a deeper level and access a different part of thinking.” 
“However, do not use the tools to help you write your songs. That would defeat the purpose of your soul training.” 
“Nevermind that, it’s almost time for the ceremony.” 
“Ceremony?” 
“Midsommer. It’s why I brought you here.” 
The swollen sun falls, and as its light fades, mist begins to pour from the lake, rolling across the ground in silver waves. He blindly follows her. They come to a wooden bridge held together with ropes and pulleys. A small child, with a shaved head, recognizes Kyranna and bows. He slowly turns a hand crank, drawing the bridge across for them. She pays him with a fang. As they cross the river, he hears a muffled choir of women. 
“What do they sing?” 
“The Song of the Sun. They sing it while they work.” 
“How can you tell?” 
“Because I wrote it.” She proudly smiles.  
On the far bank of the river, the mist thins. Maidens in sheer gowns dance as they shuck white sunflowers and pile them into heaps taller than themselves. Their bodies are silhouetted beneath the fabric. Although he can now hear their song clearly, he doesn’t understand their tongue. However, he resonates with the cheerful tone. When the sun’s final ray bleeds below the horizon, the maidens ignite the first mound. They disrobe and cover their pale skin with the ashes of the flowers. 
“For the Stag,” Kyranna proclaims, lifting a white deer mask. 
4 maidens surround John. Their soft and insistent hands undress him. His blood runs hot, and he is not embarrassed. Kyranna crowns him with the antlers, and his body is painted with warm white paint. 
From the shadows, a decorated maiden appears, leading a procession of 20 young men, each painted white, but John is the only one with antlers. 
“Daughters of Desire,” Kyranna announces, “dance around the fire!”
With her blessing, the fires are ignited with torches. The maidens take their partners by the hand, and they circle the fires. Kyranna motions to the drummer. They dance until the flames collapse in smoldering ash. Then, the priestesses smear the ashes onto their chosen men and guide them away, each disappearing in a different direction. 
“Where are we going?” John ask. 
Kyranna presses her fingers to his lips. “The Holy Well.” 
Still barefoot, she leads him through the woods. The trees open to reveal a massive stump, gnarled with roots and vines that they climb. Atop the hollow stump, balancing on its rind, Kyranna points toward the lake through the branches where a lush moon floats in the water’s reflection. He looks up to the sky but sees nothing but stars. “The hidden moon,” she whispers. 
Using the vines above, they rappel into the stump.  Beneath the surface, it is much cooler and the air is still. John can smell the damp earth. The holy well is a shallow pool carved into the soil, its walls lined with tangled roots like the veins of an ancient heart. 
On her hands and knees, still naked, she crawls over to the spring. Kryanna cups the water in her palms and offers it to him. He drinks from her hands. As the water runs down his throat, his world tilts happily. His heart grows heavy as it turns to metal. It sinks into his stomach. Her eyes pull him magnetically close. They become one. He sees their souls as entangled light forms. Although they are intertwined, they are in perfect harmony.  They feed off of each other and grow brighter. 
Suddenly, lightning strikes, and he wakes up in a humble cabin, cradled in a bed of wool and feathers next to Kyranna. Through the window, he can see the lake shimmering at the shoreline. He feels some residual warmth from the night before. Morning light streams through the glass in thick beams. 
The Oracle, who has been waiting for him to wake up, reaches across him and places a tall candle in the path of the sunlight. 
“Look,” she says softly. Dark shadows stretch across the wall, but none are from the flame.  
“Light has no shadows,” she murmurs. She places her free hand on his heart. “Just as love sees no fear.” 
“You have seen my purest form. You have seen our light. Remember this when the Tower tries to tempt you. Ask to see its light. She kisses his cheek. “Be brave, my Warrior, my Healer, my King.” 
Alone in his room, love drunk, he feverishly writes about his muse and their journey. The songs are a reflection of his soul; his light. 


Lady of The Lake
She’s got curves like mountains
She’s got flowers in her field
I swim in her ocean
Oh she whispers in my ear
She says…

It all comes back to you
It all comes back you oh
It call comes back to you.

A crimson ribbon braided in her hair
And for a moment I was there
Sleepwalking at dawn
Trying to remember the words of a love song

Lady of the Lake
You know I haven’t slept in days
Lady of the Lake you know you’re keeping me awake
She said…
It all comes back to you
It all comes back to you
It all comes back to you

When you go against destiny
It only ends in more suffering
All hail the return of the king
My eyes are open
I’m living the dream
And when the stars are strange
I go to the Lake
And when the Stars are strange
I go to the Lake

Angel Black
She’s dressed in black
Angel of my dream
She’s watching over me
She knows what I’ve have seen

Angel of my dream
What do you say
Angel of my dream
Show me the way

I’ve been enchanted
A time or two
Woke up in the evening
I didn’t know what to do

Angel of my dream
Gonna show me the light
Angel of my dream
Show me the way
You can do no wrong You can do no wrong
By me

I took her to the beach
Her eyes were calico
In the morning light
She said she had to go
I went down to the mountain
To see what I could see
I saw her dancing in the field
I saw her bathing in the stream

She’s dressed in black
My crusader of the night
She’s dressed in black
My savior of the night
Black, black, she all black
My whole world is black
Black, black she’s all black
The lady of the night
You can do no wrong
By me

Avalon
I followed her through the mist of Avalon
Across the river they sing the song of the sun
She knows every word because she wrote the song
The sun it laughs because the winter never comes

Here lips like silver
And she talks just like rain
Oh baby I know
We’ll never be the same
My midsummer baby

Daughters of desire
Dance around the fire
Her wild flower
Has a quiet power
Magnetic love
Of the Hidden moon above

Moonlight on the water
She leads wither bare feet
Nature, it always bends
To the will of the Queen
I just had the most beautiful
Beautiful dream

Lady of the lake
Let me dig your Holy Well
I know you better
Than I ever knew myself
My midsummer baby

I had a dream in the midsummer night
I had a dream you were by my side
My midsummer baby
You were by my side
All through the night
My midsummer baby

Young together
You had a tattoo of a snake
You held my hands against your waist
We danced until the break of day
How I miss your sweet taste

We were young together
2 lovers in the rain
There’s a road that goes on forever
How I wish I could stay

Don’t you know that it’s still raining
Haven’t seen the sun in days
I miss your touch
I can’t stand the rain

We were young together
2 lovers in the field
When it was time for harvest
My soul you would steal









